Centralized Version Control System vs Distributed Version Control System 
----------------------------------------------------------------------------> 
CVCS - Single central server that hosts all versioned files and directories. Client software is used to 
check out files from that central server. This has been a standard version control since a long time.  

Disadvantage : 
------------------> 
1. Central server represents a single point of failure 
2. If server goes down, then nobody will able to perform checkout or other VCS activities. Also in absence 
of backup system, all the commit history would be lost. 

In DVCS, the situation is quite different. Here, the client that checkout a repository from a server fully 
mirrors that repository. 

Another big difference 
-------------------------> 
Between Git and CVCS like subversion is the manner that each manage their own data. In subversion, the versions 
of artifacts are managed by storing the files and their change sets or differences. 

Git stores snapshots instead of file differences. Snapshot here means the state of an artifact at any point 
of time. So when we commit our file changes, git takes the snap (or pictures) of what all the files of our 
project looks at the moment of commit and stores a pointer to them. If a file has not changed, Git does not 
store it again - rather it saves a reference to that file. Hence we can easily revert the entire project to 
a different commit id (or version number) if the need arises.  

Another difference 
------------------------> 
In git, everything is local. In CVCS like perforce, we can hardly do anything if we are not connected to the 
server. 

In CVCS, like subversion or CVS, if network connectivity is absent, we can edit files but cannot save changes 
to them or in other words, cannot commit changes. 
Since a local git repository is a complete clone of the remote server repository with complete commit history, 
we can potentially do every VCS operation except pushing our changes to remote server in the absence of network
connectivity. For eg, without internet, we can still carryout all our VCS task and then subsequently push our 
changes whenever the network is available. 
